README.md, before:

# unPrison Project

## [Demo] <insert url here>

## Description
Duration: Two Weeks

unPrison Project staff speak and present at prisons across the U.S teaching life skills, cultivating critical thinking, creating post-prison life plans, and helping incarcerated women stay connected with their families. Staff track engagements and data collection through Word documents, emails, and paper notebooks.

This web application is an internal portal to allow staff to record, reference, and edit/add data quickly from one source from anywhere they have a wi-fi signal.

## Screen Shot
! [Screen Shot](screenshot.png "Screen Shot") -- insert SCREEN SHOT

## Prerequisites
Before you get started, make sure you have the following software installed on your computer:

[Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/)

[PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/)

## Create database and table

## Installation
1. Create a database named `unprison`
2. Use the queries in `database.sql` to set up the tables.
3. From the base directory in your terminal run `npm install` to grab the necessary dependencies. This may take some time.
4. Run `npm run server`
5. In another terminal instance run `npm run client`, the site will load in your default browser. Follow the prompts in your terminal if it cannot determine the default.

If you would like to name your database something else, you will need to change `unprison` to the name of your new database name in `server/modules/pool.js`

## Usage
- After users have logged in, they are presented with the Venues List page.
    - An admin creates additional users. Only the admin can do this and has an additional "admin" link in their navigation bar.
- A navigation bar is displayed at the top of the page. It includes other links to other pages titled `Venues`, `Events`, `Log Out`, and `Admin`.
- Venues can be added and will display in a list.
    - A Venue, once created, can be clicked to see more details about it. Information on the details page can be added and edited by a logged in user.
- On the Events page, a user can create a new event by selecting a venue from the dropdown menu, which is populated with venues created from the `Venues` page.
    - Note: An event can only be created for a venue that already exists.
    - An event, once created, can be clicked to see more details about it. Information on the eventss detail page can be added and edited by a logged in user.


## Update Documentation

Customize this ReadMe and the code comments in this project to read less like a starter repo and more like a project. Here is an example: https://gist.github.com/PurpleBooth/109311bb0361f32d87a2

Commit message:

add instructions for .env file setup

README.md, after:

# unPrison Project

## [Demo] <insert url here>

## Description
Duration: Two Weeks

unPrison Project staff speak and present at prisons across the U.S teaching life skills, cultivating critical thinking, creating post-prison life plans, and helping incarcerated women stay connected with their families. Staff track engagements and data collection through Word documents, emails, and paper notebooks.

This web application is an internal portal to allow staff to record, reference, and edit/add data quickly from one source from anywhere they have a wi-fi signal.

## Screen Shot
! [Screen Shot](screenshot.png "Screen Shot") -- insert SCREEN SHOT

## Prerequisites
Before you get started, make sure you have the following software installed on your computer:

[Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/)

[PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/)

## Create database and table

## Installation
1. Create a database named `unprison`
2. Use the queries in `database.sql` to set up the tables.
3. From the base directory in your terminal run `npm install` to grab the necessary dependencies. This may take some time.
4. Create a .env file at the root of the project and paste this line into the file:
SERVER_SESSION_SECRET=superDuperSecret
While you're in your new .env file, take the time to replace superDuperSecret with some long random string like 25POUbVtx6RKVNWszd9ERB9Bb6 to keep your application secure. Here's a site that can help you: https://passwordsgenerator.net/. If you don't do this step, create a secret with less than eight characters, or leave it as superDuperSecret, you will get a warning.
5. Start postgres if not running already by using brew services start postgresql
6. Run `npm run server`
7. In another terminal instance run `npm run client`, the site will load in your default browser. Follow the prompts in your terminal if it cannot determine the default.
8. Navigate to localhost:3000

If you would like to name your database something else, you will need to change `unprison` to the name of your new database name in `server/modules/pool.js`

## Usage
- After users have logged in, they are presented with the Venues List page.
    - An admin creates additional users. Only the admin can do this and has an additional "admin" link in their navigation bar.
- A navigation bar is displayed at the top of the page. It includes other links to other pages titled `Venues`, `Events`, `Log Out`, and `Admin`.
- Venues can be added and will display in a list.
    - A Venue, once created, can be clicked to see more details about it. Information on the details page can be added and edited by a logged in user.
- On the Events page, a user can create a new event by selecting a venue from the dropdown menu, which is populated with venues created from the `Venues` page.
    - Note: An event can only be created for a venue that already exists.
    - An event, once created, can be clicked to see more details about it. Information on the eventss detail page can be added and edited by a logged in user.


## Update Documentation

Customize this ReadMe and the code comments in this project to read less like a starter repo and more like a project. Here is an example: https://gist.github.com/PurpleBooth/109311bb0361f32d87a2
